earlier I spoke to our correspondent T
abazo he is in Rafa in southern
Gaza around
322 humanitarian TRS have been allowed
to get into the Gaza Strip from both K
Abu Salam and ding border here in Rafa
these uh humanitarian convoys are loaded
with water sugar flour and all kinds of
basic necessities that Palestinians are
in a very desperate need for but it's
worth mentioning also that these
humanitarian trucks are also are
combined by trucks that are guided and
delivered to the commercial sector and
to the private sector here in the
southern part of the Gaza Strip but none
of these humanitarian convoys had been
given the access to reach to the Norther
part of Gaza Strip despite the Israeli
uh military decision to reopen again the
areas of crossing and to to guarantee
further flow of humanitarian supplies to
people in the north but yet only three
humanitarian trucks get into the
northern part of Gaza one has been uh
loaded with fuel to others with medical
supplies being transferred to hospitals
in the northern part of the territory
but generally in times the Brie war
between 400 up to 500 the humanitarian
trucks the Gaza Strip was generally cons
work was generally consuming on daily
basis which means that the amount that
being delivered to the Gaza Strip is
still yet uncom incomparable to the Ence
needs of populations here specifically
those who are trapped in the northern
part of Gaza and facing
High rates of malnutrition and with
different signs of famine looming on the
horizon and T today we've heard many a
significant number of Israeli troops
have pulled out of Southern uh Gaza
particularly in kanun uh many people now
returning homes back home to their homes
and canas to see what's been left behind
uh what are you hearing from them about
what is there yes we have been hearing
from them that the only found
destruction that is in every single
corner of the city of kanun they have
been talking about they can barely find
one building that could not be hit by
Israeli military uh strike or even
artillary bombardment they are talking
about a great deal of Destruction and
Bane being left behind the Israeli
withdrawal from the city of kanun as a
result of direct battles between Hamas
Fighters and the Israeli military the
complete destruction of educational
facilities civil infrastructure and even
medical sector that become completely
out of service specifically for the
second largest hospital in the city of
kanun but again right now Palestinians
see that the Israeli withdrawal from the
city right now and being station
stationing at the eastern part of the
city is a kind of initial step being
taken by the Israeli Army in order to
prepare for potential military incursion
for Rafa as the Israeli defense minister
AF Galant has stated that the withdrawal
of the Israeli Army is for further
preparation for a potential military
incursion uh in Raa and that's
absolutely linked to the negotiations
right now being ongoing in K regarding
to to reach a ceasefire agreement
between Hamas and Israel so clearly we
have been hiding to difficult days if
there's going to be any sense of
collapse of security and also for
negotiations between both parts on the
ground we might witness further attacks
on rafah that had been widely attacked
in the past few
hour okay I'm now joined for Washington
DC by Shan Carroll he's president and
CEO of fera which is the American NE
East Refugee Aid organization thank you
for your time how do you explain the
sudden boost to the number of Aid trucks
that have entered Southern Gaza
today well look all of us working in
anira in in Gaza anira and many other
International NOS the UN agencies have
been asking for more Aid uh since the
beginning if you remember Gaza was
completely shut off at the beginning of
this war for for two weeks and then the
the 20 trucks a day that President Biden
got the Israelis to agree to took a few
days to get going took a long time to to
really get going and as we see today
this is a welcome development that over
300 trucks have gone in and it's only
the second time in 84 days that more
than 250 trucks have gone in so this is
a welcome development there still needs
to be a lot more do you think we would
be talking about these three 300 plus
trucks entering uh Rafa today if uh we
havn't seen a number of Western Aid
workers die in that Convoy we saw last
week no sadly no we wouldn't be um this
uh this tragedy this uh has allowed more
pressure to be put on um and what we
really would all hope to see is that
Israel and all of its authorities the
IDF the government its population as
well
would see and express the uh the
acknowledgment that humanitarian aid for
Palestinians in Gaza serves everyone's
interest A A A desperate population in
Gaza does not serve the interest of
Israeli security and the security of its
people and in terms of the number of
trucks so 322 trucks we know that uh
prior to October 7th uh 500 trucks uh
used to enter the strip to to feed
people and and generally to provide
support uh so how far do you think this
is going to go towards meeting the needs
of people in southern
Gaza well thank let me talk for a minute
about the numbers and then talk about
what the the really important issue is
so on the numbers again this is a
welcome development 322 trucks but since
the beginning of this war with this
number today that brings us to just over
100 trucks uh a day about 108 trucks a
day on average over 184 days and I'll
note that uh the is early authorities
have disputed the UN Logistics cluster
log but I'll note that 322 trucks today
takes the total number just over 20,000
20,000 And1 truck since the beginning
and I would imagine that on the 6month
anniversary uh it is a nice thing to say
we have now reached 20,000 trucks so I
suspect they know exactly the numbers
that are in that log uh and and are are
are using that as their metric but
that's 108 trucks a day if they bring in
322 trucks a day for the next six months
that will take us to a little bit over
200 trucks a day still less than half is
what is needed so to make up ground to
meet the extreme uh uh gaps in food and
other Essentials for for living we need
to see more than 500 trucks a day so
very welcome development but it really
needs to be doubled now the real issue
is who going to deliver all this Aid uh
unra is is blocked the Israelis won't
communicate with unra and won't allow
the agency to deliver Aid into the north
World Central Kitchen anira and at least
two other International NOS have paused
uh our work until we get more assurances
that humanitarian Aid workers are
welcome it's understood that we play a
vital role and that we are protected and
allowed access uh protected access and
safety for our workers so that we can
effectively deliver the aid right as you
say the issue has always been
distribution uh and my understanding is
these trucks are not even going to be
heading north they're exclusively for
the South uh but the north is where
we're seeing some of the most acute
suffering that's right we have to get
more Aid into the north the opening the
the the promise the announced opening of
the eras Crossing in the north is also a
welcome development but also understand
that will take some time it was damaged
at the beginning of the war it wasn't
used recently in past years for goods um
so we shouldn't get distracted by
thinking that the opening of the AES
Crossing is going to be a big benefit
it's every little bit helps we have to
work on every front there could be more
Crossings open the Carney Crossing in in
the on the Eastern Edge could be open we
just all have to work together to get
more Aid because again suffering
desperate dying famin stricken
Palestinians in Gaza does not serve the
interest of of of anyone and and the
numbers of people dying from starvation
are going to climb dramatically uh
probably regardless it's too late to
save too many but if we could get more
food in and and and the Israeli
Administration has said that food and
water and medical supplies and shelter
are allowed in without prior approval
that was also a welcome development but
we need to make sure that they're
keeping their word on that and and that
all of the partners along the supply
chain know that so that no one says well
no we can't move this forward because
it's not approved we can say No in fact
the Israeli authorities have approved uh
generally with free approval no no
approval needed for food water medical
supplies and Tents so uh Kat the
administration of the occupation has
said there's no limit to the amount of
Aid that can go in we need to take them
at their word we need to work with them
uh and and push and cajo and and make
sure that everyone is doing everything
they can to double and triple the amount
of Aid that's going in on a daily basis
and then as I say make sure we have the
capacity we have the capacity we need to
make sure we have the security and the
Assurance of of cooperation and not
hindrance and I I can say that we don't
have that yet we are still extremely
nervous uh about operating in Gaza we're
not satisfied with the findings of the
investigation on the world Central
Kitchen uh killings
uh if indeed it was it was an accident
it was a mistake we and and World
Central Kitchen and everyone would like
to to see the evidence we'd like to hear
the tapes it's hard to believe the
description uh that Israel has given for
why that occur occurred but if that is
the case then reassure Us by uh by
providing the evidence and we also inira
lost to colleague Musa shawa Logistics
coordinator uh just a month ago and we
don't have any explanation on on his
death we'd like to believe that he
wasn't targeted because there's
absolutely no reason that he would be
targeted and it's a crime against uh
Humanity a crime a war crime to to
Target uh International Aid workers any
Aid workers he's a Palestinian any any
humanitarian Aid worker uh and it's uh
it's very disconcerting it's very um
stomach churning to hear recently to
read of an Israeli artificial
intelligence program for targeting uh
called Daddy's Home home and the idea is
that they attract a Target until he's
home and then uh kill him and Musa had
arrived home in his family home from a
day of delivering Aid with anira still
had his anira sweatshirt on and he was
killed as he sat down to have coffee
with his family as was his six-year-old
son I I just
can't this is the this is the Stark
reality that needs to be addressed if we
are going to uh provide life sustaining
Essentials to lessen the
desperation uh in uh in the Gaza STP
Sean I appreciate you talking to us Shan
Carol president and CEO of fera the
American neare East Refugee Aid
organization thank you very much for
having me